Add "Deploy an ERC20" with remix tutorial (#344)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20.md

---
title: Deploy a ERC20 to Asset Hub
description: Deploy an ERC20 token on Asset Hub using PolkaVM. This guide covers contract creation, compilation, deployment, and interaction via Polkadot Remix IDE.
---

# Deploy ERC20 to Asset Hub

## Introduction

> ERC20 tokens are fungible tokens commonly used for creating cryptocurrencies, governance tokens, and staking mechanisms. Asset Hub enables easy token deployment with EVM-compatible smart contracts via PolkaVM. This tutorial covers deploying an ERC20 contract on the Westend TestNet using [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://polkadot.remix.io){target=\_blank}, a web-based development tool. [OpenZeppelin's ERC20 contracts](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/tree/v5.0.0/contracts/token/ERC20){target=\_blank} is used for security and compliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ERC20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20){target=\_blank} tokens are fungible tokens commonly used for creating cryptocurrencies, governance tokens, and staking mechanisms. Asset Hub enables easy token deployment with EVM-compatible smart contracts via PolkaVM. This tutorial covers deploying an ERC20 contract on the Westend TestNet using [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://remix.polkadot.io){target=\_blank}, a web-based development tool. [OpenZeppelin's ERC20 contracts](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/tree/v5.0.0/contracts/token/ERC20){target=\_blank} are used for security and compliance.
```

## Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have:

> - MetaMask installed and connected to Westend Asset Hub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/){target=\_blank} installed and connected to [Westend Asset Hub](https://chainlist.org/chain/420420421){target=\_blank}
```

- A funded account with some WND tokens (you can get them from the [Westend Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend?parachain=1000){target=\_blank})
- Basic understanding of Solidity and fungible tokens

## Creating the ERC20 Contract

To create the ERC20 contract, you can follow the steps below:

> 1. Navigate to the [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://polkadot.remix.io){target=\_blank}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://remix.polkadot.io){target=\_blank}
```

2. Click in the **Create new file** button under the **contracts** folder, and name your contract as `MyToken.sol`

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-1.webp)

3. Now, paste the following ERC20 contract code into the editor

    ```solidity title="MyToken.sol"

>     --8<-- 'code/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/MyToken.sol'

Reviewer: Was this snippet formatted with prettier or something like that?

Author: No, we don't have a prettier set up for solidity files. This is exactly how the openzeppelin wizard displays the contract

Reviewer 2: Thanks for raising this! I've got a ticket to make sure that we add formatting for Solidity files. But this looks good

    ```

    The key components of the code above are:

    - Contract Imports

        - [`ERC20.sol`](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/v5.0.0/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol){target=\_blank} - the base contract for fungible tokens, implementing core functionality like transfers, approvals, and balance tracking
        - [`Ownable.sol`](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/v5.0.0/contracts/access/Ownable.sol){target=\_blank} - provides basic authorization control, ensuring only the contract owner can mint new tokens
    
    - Constructor Parameters

        - `initialOwner` - sets the address that will have administrative rights over the contract
        - `"MyToken"` - the full name of your token
        - `"MTK"` - the symbol representing your token in wallets and exchanges

>     - Key Function

Reviewer: Even though the only visible funciton in this code is `mint`, you should explain that there are other functions available such as `transfer`, `approve`, etc

        - `mint(address to, uint256 amount)` - allows the contract owner to create new tokens for any address. The amount should include 18 decimals (e.g., 1 token = 1000000000000000000)

    !!! tip
        Use the [OpenZeppelin Contracts Wizard](https://wizard.openzeppelin.com/){target=\_blank} to quickly generate customized smart contracts. Simply configure your contract, copy the generated code, and paste it into Polkadot Remix IDE for deployment.

## Compiling the Contract

> 

Reviewer: It would be better to have a brief explanation here before the steps

1. Select the **Solidity Compiler** plugin from the left panel

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-2.webp)

2. Click in the **Compile MyToken.sol** button

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-3.webp)

3. If the compilation succeeded, you can see a green checkmark indicating success in the **Solidity Compiler** icon

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-4.webp)

## Deploying the Contract

> 

Reviewer: Explain what this section is going to do

1. Select the **Deploy & Run Transactions** plugin from the left panel

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-5.webp)

2. Configure the deployment settings
    1. From the **ENVIRONMENT** dropdown, select **Westend Testnet - MetaMask**
    2. From the **ACCOUNT** dropdown, select the account you want to use for the deploy

>         ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-6.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-6.webp)
```

3. Configure the contract parameters
    1. Enter the address that will own the deployed token contract
    2. Click the **Deploy** button to initiate the deployment

>         ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-7.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-7.webp)
```

4. MetaMask will pop up - review the transaction details. Click **Confirm** to deploy your contract

>      ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-8.webp){: .browser-extension}

Reviewer: is it possible to center this image?

Author: It is the center; you should pull the latest `polkadot-mkdocs` version (which contains [this PR](https://github.com/papermoonio/polkadot-mkdocs/pull/70)).

    If the deployment process succeeded, you will see the transaction details in the terminal, including the contract address and deployment transaction hash:

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-9.webp)

## Interacting with Your ERC20 Contract

Once deployed, you can interact with your contract through Remix:

1. Find your contract under **Deployed/Unpinned Contracts**, and click it to expand the available methods

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-10.webp)

> 2. To mint new tokens:

Reviewer: The steps do not show the same order as the image

    1. Expand the **mint** function
    2. Enter:
        - The recipient address
        - The amount (remember to add 18 zeros for 1 whole token)
    3. Click **Transact**

>         ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-11.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-11.webp)
```

> 5. Confirm the transaction in MetaMask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Confirm the transaction in MetaMask
```

---

> title: Deploy a ERC20 to Asset Hub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Deploy an ERC-20 to Asset Hub
```

Reviewer 2: Please check the rest of the guide and update to ERC-20 (with hyphen), unless referring to code

description: Deploy an ERC20 token on Asset Hub using PolkaVM. This guide covers contract creation, compilation, deployment, and interaction via Polkadot Remix IDE.
---

# Deploy ERC20 to Asset Hub

## Introduction

> [ERC20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20){target=\_blank} tokens are fungible tokens commonly used for creating cryptocurrencies, governance tokens, and staking mechanisms. Asset Hub enables easy token deployment with EVM-compatible smart contracts via PolkaVM. This tutorial covers deploying an ERC20 contract on the Westend TestNet using [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://remix.polkadot.io){target=\_blank}, a web-based development tool. [OpenZeppelin's ERC20 contracts](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/tree/v5.0.0/contracts/token/ERC20){target=\_blank} are used for security and compliance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[ERC-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20){target=\_blank} tokens are fungible tokens commonly used for creating cryptocurrencies, governance tokens, and staking mechanisms. Asset Hub enables easy token deployment with EVM-compatible smart contracts via PolkaVM.

This tutorial covers deploying an ERC-20 contract on the Westend TestNet using [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://remix.polkadot.io){target=\_blank}, a web-based development tool. [OpenZeppelin's ERC-20 contracts](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/tree/v5.0.0/contracts/token/ERC20){target=\_blank} are used for security and compliance.
```

## Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have:

- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/){target=\_blank} installed and connected to [Westend Asset Hub](https://chainlist.org/chain/420420421){target=\_blank}
- A funded account with some WND tokens (you can get them from the [Westend Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend?parachain=1000){target=\_blank})
- Basic understanding of Solidity and fungible tokens

## Creating the ERC20 Contract

To create the ERC20 contract, you can follow the steps below:

1. Navigate to the [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://remix.polkadot.io){target=\_blank}
2. Click in the **Create new file** button under the **contracts** folder, and name your contract as `MyToken.sol`

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-1.webp)

3. Now, paste the following ERC20 contract code into the editor

    ```solidity title="MyToken.sol"
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/MyToken.sol'
    ```

    The key components of the code above are:

>     - Contract Imports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Contract imports
```

Please use sentence case. Please update other instances

>         - [`ERC20.sol`](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/v5.0.0/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol){target=\_blank} - the base contract for fungible tokens, implementing core functionality like transfers, approvals, and balance tracking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - [**`ERC20.sol`**](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/v5.0.0/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol){target=\_blank} - the base contract for fungible tokens, implementing core functionality like transfers, approvals, and balance tracking
```

All list items in this format should have the text before (to the left of) the dash in bold, whether or not they contain a code element

Reviewer 2: Please update all other instances

        - [`Ownable.sol`](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/v5.0.0/contracts/access/Ownable.sol){target=\_blank} - provides basic authorization control, ensuring only the contract owner can mint new tokens
    
    - Constructor Parameters

        - `initialOwner` - sets the address that will have administrative rights over the contract
        - `"MyToken"` - the full name of your token
        - `"MTK"` - the symbol representing your token in wallets and exchanges

>     - Key Function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Key functions
```

Reviewer 2: Plural

        - Inherited [Standard ERC20](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/){target=\_blank} functions:
            - `transfer(address recipient, uint256 amount)` - sends a specified amount of tokens to another address
            - `approve(address spender, uint256 amount)` - grants permission for another address to spend a specific number of tokens on behalf of the token owner
            - `transferFrom(address sender, address recipient, uint256 amount)` - transfers tokens from one address to another, if previously approved
            - `balanceOf(address account)` - returns the token balance of a specific address
            - `allowance(address owner, address spender)` - checks how many tokens an address is allowed to spend on behalf of another address

    !!! tip
        Use the [OpenZeppelin Contracts Wizard](https://wizard.openzeppelin.com/){target=\_blank} to quickly generate customized smart contracts. Simply configure your contract, copy the generated code, and paste it into Polkadot Remix IDE for deployment.

> ## Compiling the Contract

Reviewer 2: Ah I just noticed this, but these titles should be action-oriented, so "Compile the Contract" instead.

- Use "Compiling the Contract" when describing the concept or providing general information
- Use "Compile the Contract" when giving a clear instruction in a tutorial or step-by-step guide

Can you please update the rest of the titles? I'll create a ticket to go back and check other guides

The compilation transforms your Solidity source code into bytecode that can be deployed on the blockchain. During this process, the compiler checks your contract for syntax errors, ensures type safety, and generates the machine-readable instructions needed for blockchain execution. To compile your contract, follow the instructions below:

1. Select the **Solidity Compiler** plugin from the left panel

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-2.webp)

> 2. Click in the **Compile MyToken.sol** button

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click the **Compile MyToken.sol** button
```

    ![](/images/tutorials/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/deploy-erc20-3.webp)

> 3. If the compilation succeeded, you can see a green checkmark indicating success in the **Solidity Compiler** icon

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If the compilation succeeded, you'll see a green checkmark indicating success in the **Solidity Compiler** icon
```
